---
layout: post
title: 'Scott Pilgrim vs. The World review: Canadian pilgrims'
date: '2012-05-03T00:00:00-04:00'
tags: []
tumblr_url: http://tremulousone.tumblr.com/post/148290298179/scott-pilgrim-vs-the-world-review-canadian
---
“Not so long ago… in the mysterious land… of Toronto, Canada… Scott Pilgrim was dating a high schooler.” So begins the film bearing his name with bombastic narration by Saturday Night Live’s Bill Hader, and although the introduction seems inappropriately over the top at first, what with the film cutting into Scott having a conversation with his friends and fellow bandmates, it eventually turns out to be a perfect intro into the world of Mr. Pilgrim, which isn’t quite as normal as it leads on at first. Scott Pilgrim vs. the World (2010, Universal, PG-13) appropriately is focused around Scott (played by Michael Cera), a jobless, twentysomething slacker who lives in an apartment with his best friend Wallace Wells (Kieran Culkin) and plays bass for a rather unpopular garage band named Sex Bob-Omb. Oh, and he’s also dating Knives Chau (Ellen Wong), a Chinese-Canadian, 17-year-old high school girl (appropriately enough). His life stays pretty normal for the most part until he meets Ramona Flowers (North Carolina’s own Mary Elizabeth Winstead), a mysterious American delivery girl working for Amazon.ca. Scott thinks he’s found the perfect girl for him, but she comes with a hitch: in order for Scott to date her, he has to defeat her seven evil ex-boyfriends. This, surprisingly enough, doesn’t keep Scott from bailing out on her, and he manages to stay undeterred despite possibly facing defeat himself. Now, as for whether he succeds, it’d be spoiling the movie if I told you, so I’ll stop here.Michael Cera is a good fit for the role of Scott, and he manages to deliver perfectly on the “quirky slacker” personality that comes with the character. As for his performance during the fights, he doesn’t stand out as much as Scott did in the graphic novels, but you can tell that he was trying, and he’s certainly not the most boring action hero to watch. I’ve seen worse for sure. Mary Elizabeth Winstead is a pretty good Ramona too, but she seems flat at times rather than providing the charismatic, snippy femme fatale that Bryan Lee O’Malley was aiming for in the books.One of the best things about Scott Pilgrim is its supporting cast. Winstead and Cera aren’t slouches either, but at times it felt like the background characters were stealing the show, and this is especially apparent in almost every scene Kieran Culkin shows up in as Wallace. Culkin’s performance as Scott’s gay roommate is fiery and wild, and he’s a great fit for the movie for sure. Knives is also an interesting variation on the “bubbly schoolgirl” archetype, and her later appearances in the film actually had me rooting for her to get with Scott rather than Ramona sometimes. Finally, this wouldn’t be complete if I didn’t mention Scott’s bandmates in Sex Bob-omb, Stephen and Kim, who stand out particularly during their performances and in their scenes.The exes themselves are a fairly varied set of characters with their own quirks, and most of them keep the same variations of “bad guy”-ness that comes with their characters. In fact, the only ones I found to be a disappointment were the Katanayagi twins (Shota & Keita Saito), who don’t have any lines. I can’t say much here for spoiler reasons but I thought that the other exes were quite fun to watch and deserved more screen time.All in all, Scott Pilgrim vs. the World is a fun little romantic action comedy movie with two pretty good leads and a great group of secondary characters. It’s a movie set squarely for the young, indie and nerd set, but if you’re not considered any of those, you should still enjoy something. This movie didn’t do well at the box office when it released, but since then it’s found its audience on home video and is set to become a cult classic of the 2010’s, and with good reason. If you’re ready for a good laugh, or just want something to do for two hours, Scott Pilgrim vs. the World is a fun little film that’s certainly worth seeing.
