---
layout: post
title: 'Brave review: of fates and fables'
date: '2012-06-27T00:00:00-04:00'
tags: []
tumblr_url: http://tremulousone.tumblr.com/post/148290134639/brave-review-of-fates-and-fables
---
Fairy tales are strange. They can run the gamut from kiddy, unoffending fare to nightmarish fantasies that serve as frightening to the audience (unless you just don’t care, in which case, whatever). We’ve seen plenty of stuff about princesses, especially from Disney (though they’ve kind of let up on that, as we can see from the not one, but two Snow White movies recently released). So Pixar’s made a fairy tale, with a princess as the main character– and while a few years back we might’ve thought this was an alright proposition, a lot of people weren’t very big fans of their effort last year, Cars 2 (even though I didn’t think it was that bad, m’self), and as a result Brave has a bit of a problem: can it convince people that Pixar hasn’t lost the spark that kept them adored by audiences since Toy Story back in 1995?Well, it surely convinced me.Brave is an interesting little film: it focuses on the exploits of Merida (Kelly MacDonald), a reckless young princess who’s not afraid to loosen her dress a bit and go out to do “unprincess-y” things, much to the chagrin of her mother, Queen Elinor (Emma Thompson). Merida herself is fun to watch– she’s quirky and isn’t one of those run of the mill Disney princesses you’d think of when you hear “Disney” and “fairy tale” in the same sentence. She’s more Rapunzel from Tangled, say, than Snow White from the 1930’s, and it’s refreshing to see that Pixar and Disney are willing to keep their lineup more diverse (rest assured, Disney will most likely assimilate her into the princess merchandise). Heck, even if I were a younger boy who figured girls were icky, I’d probably still think she was a cool protagonist, which she is, though her mistakes do run rather deep.To pare the film down to its basic elements, Merida’s parents get letters sent from the Lords of the nearby clans accepting their offer to have a competition for the hand of Merida, and as practically any arranged bride would, Merida isn’t pleased by the development. After having a falling out with Elinor over the arrangements and the idea that Elinor won’t listen to anything she says, Merida runs away to the forest, where she’s led to the cottage of a witch (Julie Walters) who gives her a spell to change her fate. I won’t say exactly what happens but let’s just say the results are disastrous for everyone, and Merida has to find a way to reverse the spell before time runs out and the kingdom gets changed permanently.It feels pretty familiar, but fresh at the same time. Mark Andrews, Steve Purcell and Brenda Chapman use the strengths of the concept to create a story that doesn’t retread the same ground we already knew– instead, it seems to zigzag into new places that make it feel distinctively Pixar. Elinor and Merida’s relationship in particular is the device that drives the entire story, and it definitely feels real enough to do the job.Pixar completely rewrote the software they used to create their films to do Brave, and it certainly shows– this film is a spectacle of both sight and sound. I didn’t see it in 3D, but it didn’t matter, because the visual and sonic elements still immersed me into the movie and I definitely would recommend it on this alone. Heck, the first scene after the prologue treats us to Merida climbing a cliff next to a waterfall, and if I only saw that part, I’d have thought it was a live-action still. And that’s just the tip of the iceberg: this movie has to be seen to be believed.Brave is, in many ways, a revolution for Pixar: it’s the first movie they’ve done with a female lead, and afemale director at the helm. But it’s also the first time they’ve had to renew faith in their audience since Cars 2 wasn’t very well received. Luckily, the film lives up to the title and manages to be a courageous return to form for the studio and I think it does a splendid job overall. Go see it.######## 8/10This review was originally published in July 2012 on heapershangout.com.
