---
layout: post
title: 'Brink review: on the verge'
date: '2012-05-02T00:00:00-04:00'
tags:
- treman's world
tumblr_url: http://tremulousone.tumblr.com/post/148290370024/brink-review-on-the-verge
---
So, Splash Damage had an idea in 2008-ish to make a game. It wasn’t going to be entirely like their previous efforts in the FPS genre, which were straight-up shooters in the Id Software series Enemy Territory. They wanted a game that would integrate the high-flyin’, fast-movin’ action of parkour with their FPS bread-and butter.Brink was an ambitious project, one that had only one contemporary at the time – EA’s Mirror’s Edge, which was released in ‘08 to critical acclaim, but didn’t have a very large audience. Had it been released around that time Brink might have been the start of a new trend, but Splash Damage kept their darling project in until 2009… and then 2010… and then 2011, when it finally got released.Does Brink live up to its lengthy incubation time? Well, sort of.Fans of Mirror’s Edge and its unique gameplay will be a bit disappointed. Brink is first and foremost a shooter, and can be played exclusively as such, though if you play it just like that, you’ll be missing out. The game’s most fun if you take advantage of the SMART button, which is what Splash Damage calls its system for automatically making your character vault over obstacles and stuff. It’s a bit wonky at times (like, say, when you’re trying to perform a jump and it puts you in the wrong direction) but overall the button works pretty well. If you’re the type that’s willing to learn, though, you can just perform all of the funky parkour moves yourself (though this requires much patience and possibly a black belt).The storyline, which focuses on the conflict between a floating city’s rebellion and police (appropriately named the Resistance and the Security, woo), isn’t as engaging as the concept could allow, though it tries to make it work, and ends up fairly decent as a result. One good thing about it though is that neither side is particularly marked as “good” or “evil”, hence making whichever side you choose a moot point.Some of the missions, however, can be tedious thanks to the wishy-washy AI. Sometimes the battles you go to will be lost thanks to the rest of your team not performing their objectives, and it can take a human to win for the team often because of this. I found this to be one of the lower points of playing, and since a good amount of people have left the online servers for other, newer shooters… yeah, not the best experience around.In contrast, though, I found the character customization system to be one of the best ones this side of Rock Band 2. The three body types and the four classes all let you tailor your Brink to your preferences and adjust to any changes you’d like to make, and most of the bells and whistles you can put on your characters can be combined to make some pretty nice looks. (Of course, since this is an FPS you won’t be seeing much of your character, but hey, it’s nice to see a cool-looking dude represent you at the main menu.)Brink can be tedious at times but if you’re willing to put the time into it it can become a quite fun, if somewhat flawed, game. It doesn’t entirely live up to the hype it built up, but if you can ignore that then it’s worth it.And for $11, you can’t go wrong, right?
