---
layout: post
title: tl;dr :(
date: '2012-11-10T00:18:57-05:00'
tags:
- Tre
- Lyle Terry
- Tre has the sads
tumblr_url: http://tremulousone.tumblr.com/post/35389173286/tldr
---
hey guys

is it weird that I have a 3.7 GPA and I’m probably doing the best I ever have academically since 7th grade, but I don’t feel that way?

I don’t get it. In the daytime I’m as kipper as always, but as night comes around I get weird. You know how some people find solace in solitude? It seems like I was one of those, but all of a sudden I feel like I’m not “right” because I don’t really connect with many of the people around me the way I think I should. 

Well, maybe this might just be me being off because my sister left for college in August. She visits often but it’s not the same. I think I’m more fond of her now than I was when she left but ever since then I’ve noticed that I’m more subdued and lonelier than usual. It’s strange, though, because most of it isn’t actually me missing her so much as me feeling sad én generále.

Now that I think of it, maybe college itself might be a little bit of it too. Recently it seems like the world is going to need me to choose something to do once I graduate in roughly 2 years, but 2 years seems like an awfully short time to figure out what you’re going to be doing for easily the next 5-10 years afterward, perhaps even longer, and what you’ll have to be in debt for once you’re out of school. 

And it’s even worse when you have no idea what field to go in – or HOW to get into those fields. 

Honestly, right now I just want to be a stupid kid and be an adult later, but God knows if I’ll even be able to do that.
