---
layout: post
title: 'The Avengers review: some assembly required'
date: '2012-05-27T00:00:00-04:00'
tags: []
tumblr_url: http://tremulousone.tumblr.com/post/148290220549/the-avengers-review-some-assembly-required
---
Ah, the summer blockbuster. One of the most (in)famous genres of our time, with films of various qualities coming out of its ilk, from the good (like, say, the first two Spider-Man films) to the bad (the last Spider-Man film) to the just plain ugly (cough, cough, Transformers 2). One studio that’s managed to get the genre right is Marvel Comics’s production arm, Marvel Studios. With offerings like the Iron Man series, the company has made a name for itself with its burgeoning universe.But there’s something different about their newest movie, The Avengers. There’s something… special about it.Maybe it’s just the satisfying combination of their past movies’ heroes coming together as a team for the first time on the big screen. Maybe it’s because the hype has gotten ridiculously high that only The Hunger Games has been its equal this year. Or maybe it might be because they got Joss Frakking Whedon to direct the whole shebang. But one thing is for sure: Marvel’s gotten their biggest hit yet in this one, and the box office numbers don’t lie. The Avengers is a ride you won’t want to miss, and this rollercoaster’s running without brakes.If you don’t know what it’s about, the concept is fairly simple: A bunch of superheroes attempt to work as a team once an otherworldly threat rolls up and starts wrecking stuff. It’s not a complex formula and you probably won’t need much past knowledge of the other Marvel movies to have a good time, but it certainly helps. Don’t go into it expecting to be swept off of your feet by too much drama; there is certainly enough there to keep the plot interesting, but Whedon keeps his notable chain-yanking moments to a minimum here, and the movie’s better for it.While I don’t want to go too into the plot for fear of spoilers, I will say that Tom Hiddleston (aka Loki) manages to pull off an amazing performance as the movie’s villain. I wanted to wring his neck the whole time (even moreso than in Thor) and I can’t honestly see anyone else as playing the role, a trait that actually applied to most of the cast.The action is top-notch as we’ve come to expect from both Marvel and Whedon, and the look of the film is bright enough to keep it from seeming like it was filmed through a lens of a pair of sunglasses, and we need more of those for 3D films like it, I tell ya what. Speaking of the 3D, it’s subtle enough to not distract us from the action, but it’s done in a way that still gives the whole movie a sense of dimension while you watch it. (Unfortunately I had to take my glasses off during some of the cooler parts because some obnoxious guy was using his phone and it was irritating to look at, but it really wasn’t too big a deal.)All in all, The Avengers is a fun, fast and entertaining movie, and even if you don’t like superhero movies, this one is definitely worth taking a look at. The final showdown at the end made the whole thing worth coming to on its own, but that doesn’t make the rest of the film seem any less epic in comparison. My only gripe would be that we didn’t get as much Samuel L. Jackson as Nick Fury than one would hope for, but that’s a small price to pay for the rest of this amazing film.######### 9/10This review was originally published in May 2012 on heapershangout.com.
