---
layout: post
title: 'The Amazing Spider-Man review: Swingin'' into new territory'
date: '2013-06-29T00:00:00-04:00'
tags: []
tumblr_url: http://tremulousone.tumblr.com/post/148290078149/the-amazing-spider-man-review-swingin-into-new
---
I’ll put it out of the way now: I love superhero movies. I really, really do. I dunno what it is about watching dudes and chicks in spandex kicking bad guy butt but I am a total sucker for it, and I don’t really care how unprofessional that may sound (yeah, I know, but I’m 15, I’m allowed).But there’s one superhero movie from recently that I could not get myself to like. (No, Batman Forever is not “recent”, so it doesn’t count.) It felt like such a fall from grace in comparison to its predecessors, and there were glimpses of that same greatness I was able to see before in it but that’s just what they were: glimpses.That movie, and I know I may get some flack for saying this, is Spider-Man 3.Luckily, when I’d heard the rumors that the movies were going to be rebooted, I got excited. Maybe a new outlook on the same premise might have been the kick in the pants the series needed to get back on its feet after it got stale with the third installment of the originals. And once I heard that the director of (500) Days of Summer, Marc Webb, was at the helm of the new Spider-Man, I smiled. I’m a big fan of the character, and I knew his take on the hero would be an engaging one from the amazing depth he had taken with the story of Tom and Summer from his last movie.Boy howdy, was I right. Thanks to its surprisingly subversive portrayal of the Spidey mythos and its well-placed actors, The Amazing Spider-Man manages to make its own path to greatness rather than retreading old ground. Some people may say Andrew Garfield may not be a full fit for the role of Peter because he’s British (he’s only half-Brit, anyway) but I found his performance outweighed that (and besides, he already proved he could pull the weight with the amazingness that was his performance in The Social Network).As one can probably figure out relatively quickly, the movie focuses on Peter as he starts to come to terms with his newly developed powers during his high school years. But unlike the old movies, we get to see more of his Peter persona this time around; his life’s complex and multifaceted, like any superhero’s would be. Furthermore, we get a look at what happened to his parents, territory that the original series never touched upon, further cementing that this isn’t the same Spider-Man we saw with Tobey Maguire. Some might call this version of the story “darker and edgier”, which it kind of is, but the best thing about the way they did this was that it didn’t seem like a forced change at all. Peter doesn’t come home from fights unscathed (in fact, practically every time he gets there he’s got a new bruise or injury). For the most part, the movie takes a more grounded and serious approach to Spider-Man, which kind of reminded me of Nolan’s Dark Knight trilogy; however, this isn’t to say that the whole thing’s a serious and grimdark affair. There are some genuinely funny moments interspersed in there, and they made for a nice pick-up for the mood when things get bad (and indeed they do).Speaking of “bad”, the main villain in the movie, the Lizard, was fairly well-done. His CGI was top-notch, but I will say that Rhys Ifans’s performance of the archetypal “good scientist goes bad” was just not as gripping to me as Alfred Molina as Dr. Octavius/Dr. Octopus in Spider-Man 2. (He was, however, a HUGE step up from Venom and the Sandman both in Spider-Man 3.) One area where the new films nail it just as well as the originals did was Peter’s main love interest, Gwen Stacy. I will admit, I’m kind of extremely fond of Emma Stone, but even if I weren’t I’d still think she did a good job in the role of “the hot scientist intern”. Probably.Overall, The Amazing Spider-Man lives up to its name. It may not reach the same heights that the original series hit with its second installment, but it comes extremely close. The new take on its story is a great call and the cast fit very well into their roles. I saw it in 3D, and I have to say I didn’t really see much of any use of it besides maybe one or two scenes, one of which is at the very end of the film before the credits roll. But as long as it isn’t exploited as a gimmick, I guess I’m OK with it. Also, the fact that they got a guy named Marc Webb to direct it was rather hilarious.######### 9/10This review was originally published in June 2012 on heapershangout.com.
