---
layout: post
title: aspergers friendly to a fault this article
date: '2014-10-30T23:50:00-04:00'
tags: []
tumblr_url: http://tremulousone.tumblr.com/post/101394089764/aspergers-friendly-to-a-fault-this-article
---
Asperger’s: friendly to a fault
This article originally ran as a front page story in the October 28, 2014 print issue of The Hi-Times, my high school’s newspaper.
I’ve always wondered what the word ‘normal’ meant.
I mean that figuratively, of course. Etymologically, it’s rather simple: “conforming to the standard or the common type; usual; not abnormal; regular; natural.” But what would being normal entail? What would it be like to adhere to the ‘rules’ of my society, but in a passive way? 
You might be confused, but that’s alright, I may need to explain a bit. I’m Tre, a seventeen-year old Broughton student, and I have Asperger’s syndrome.

Don’t get scared, it isn’t contagious, nor is it anything life-threatening. My perennial favorite site, Wikipedia, calls it “[a disorder] that is characterized by significant difficulties in social interaction and nonverbal communication, alongside restricted and repetitive patterns of behavior and interests.” That specific diagnosis doesn’t exist anymore in the world of psychology, though. Since Asperger’s and less severe forms of autism have been more or less determined to be the same, the distinct name isn’t formally recognized in the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, also known as the DSM, or, more bluntly, the Great Big Book of Mental Differences.
Literal thinkers, or people who think in pictures
That’s a little hard to swallow, is it not? Let’s put it in English. Laura Boyce, the curriculum assistance teacher and coordinator of studies on autism spectrum disorders here at Broughton, says that the word autism makes her think of “literal thinkers, or people who think in pictures.” Those of us with autism might have difficulties relating to others in ways that, for most people, might seem ubiquitous– for some of us, it may be idioms, or facial expressions, or sarcasm. How we speak and communicate may also be alien to others; we might be a bit wordy, or occasionally fumble with second nature behaviors like basic eye contact or vocal volume. 
People on the whole are complex beings, so everyone might have struggles with these sorts of things every now and then, but we’re a little more prone to them than what most of our peers expect. That’s not to say people with autism can’t relate to others at all, however, or that they’re cold, unfeeling robots. It may seem like it at times if you’re not used to the ways we express ourselves, but we’re far from there– we’re just as capable of anger, sadness, joy and amusement as everyone else.
We’re not cold, unfeeling robots
When I asked about whether or not it could be considered a disability, Boyce stated that it could be for some people, depending on the degree to which they’re affected. Because autism isn’t really something that can be measured with one clear-cut diagnosis, we refer to it as a spectrum of disorders instead of just one. This is why there might be people you know that you wouldn’t suspect of having a disorder at all, and why there are some who might need more extensive intervention and help throughout their school careers and possibly their lives as a whole; you might just know a few people in between, too. No two people with autism are really capable of being exactly the same, and the terminology has to reflect that.

A common trait of people on the spectrum is an intense curiosity directed toward one or a few interests– a set of Things, if you will. Sometimes our Things are common stuff that many of our peers enjoy, but often they’re not. Mine are pretty easy to determine; if I’m not talking or thinking about electronic music or a series of video games about a guy without limbs, I’ve probably got Cartoon Network’s comedy shows on the brain. I could literally go on about any of those for hours at a time, but I’ve discovered that it’s hard to do that with people who might not necessarily share your interests.
Our Things can lead us down great paths, though. Temple Grandin, an autistic activist and doctor of animal science, became a proponent figure in the livestock industry because of her passion for analyzing the ways the cattle on her family’s farm behaved; with two critically acclaimed books under her belt in the field, she’s also made a name for herself by sharing her experiences as a kid and as an adult living with autism. She’s not the only one either; a lot of people you may recognize have been diagnosed, like musicians Susan Boyle and Owl City or film director Stanley Kubrick.
I heard an analogy a long time ago relating people to computers, and while it was a bit simplistic, for our purposes, it’ll do. Most people are like Windows PCs: different in their own distinct ways, but identifiably made up of similar components and capable of a huge amount of tasks. Those of us with autism, meanwhile, are closer to the Mac end of things: a little different internally and perhaps a bit unsuited for certain tasks, but incredibly specialized for a specific set of skills and, once you get the hang of their quirks, friendly to a fault.
I had one more question for Boyce: whether or not she believed it was possible for people with social disorders like autism to operate and find success within their societies. Her response was brief, but very clear. 
“Absolutely.”
