---
layout: post
title: no title
date: '2016-04-02T00:00:00-04:00'
tags: []
tumblr_url: http://tremulousone.tumblr.com/post/148289749784/trespeak-so-id-like-to-think-i-do-a-pretty
---
trespeak:

So. I’d like to think I do a pretty good job of being up front about it on here and in real life, but for the sake of clarifying the context, I’ll say it here: I have autism. Asperger’s, PDD-NOS, whatever you want to call it, it’s something that’s been part of my existence since the day I was born.
Guess I might as well talk about it while it’s a conversation topic! (I don’t get to do that very often with things that I enjoy talking about, so I might as well relish the opportunity and strike while the iron’s hot.)
How does it make me different? Well, to summarize it, I’ve always had a degree of trouble being able to socialize with others, because my brain isn’t built for it. Years of practice and outside influence have made me much better at it than I was as a child, but there are a few things that I still struggle with to this day, among them being maintaining eye contact with conversational partners and detecting what my peers are comfortable with when physical interactions or specific topics are concerned.
There are a few other ways, too. I’m almost always singing or humming whatever song’s in my head as a means of stimulating my senses (they call this stimming), and I have extensive knowledge stored about the minutiae of stuff that I half-jokingly say no one else cares about (these are commonly known as special interests; I call them Things, with a capital T). What I lack in discourse skills I make up for considerably with how much I could tell you about my favorite video games off of the top of my head.
Now, I guess this is the part where you’d expect me to say something like, “even though it’s been difficult for me at times, I’ve never let it get in the way of being my true self,” or something along those lines. And it has been pretty hard occasionally! My elementary school years were about as turbulent as one could imagine thanks to bullying and my inability to interact meaningfully with my peers at that point. Even today, it can make things with charitable intent significantly harder to support because of the violence against people like me facilitated by said charities. (I could write a whole post about that, but I don’t feel like I need to– there are a ton out there already. As far as options for organizations worth supporting, @autisticadvocacy is a good place to start.)
But I don’t see it as a thing that blocks me from being who I am or anything. In fact, I wouldn’t be the Tre I am without being autistic. The way I see the world is shaped by my special interests, my Things. I’ve built reputations with friends and family for being absolutely taken with topics that most people couldn’t tell you a single factoid about– the ins and outs of applications on Windows and OS X, the universes I’ve created, the latest mergers and acquisitions, the limbless wonder, the brand identities and logos of all kinds of organizations, the nerd with a laser, the color green.
It isn’t just a part of me, it’s everything about me. And I wouldn’t have it any other way.
